THURSDAY, JULY 11, 2013
MORNING
I’m picking at the plaster on my forefinger. It’s damp, it got wet when I was washing out my coffee
mug this morning; it feels clammy, dirty, though it was clean on this morning. I don’t want to take it off
because the cut is deep. Cathy was out when I got home, so I went to the off-licence and bought two
bottles of wine. I drank the first one and then I thought I’d take advantage of the fact that she was out
and cook myself a steak, make a red-onion relish, have it with a green salad. A good, healthy meal. I
sliced through the top of my finger while chopping the onions. I must have gone to the bathroom to
clean it up and gone to lie down for a while and just forgotten all about it, because I woke up around
ten and I could hear Cathy and Damien talking and he was saying how disgusting it was that I would
leave the kitchen like that. Cathy came upstairs to see me, she knocked softly on my door and opened
it a fraction. She cocked her head to one side and asked if I was OK. I apologized without being sure
what I was apologizing for. She said it was all right, but would I mind cleaning up a bit? There was
blood on the chopping board, the room smelled of raw meat, the steak was still sitting out on the
countertop, turning grey. Damien didn’t even say hello, he just shook his head when he saw me and
went upstairs to Cathy’s bedroom.
After they’d both gone to bed I remembered that I hadn’t drunk the second bottle, so I opened that. I
sat on the sofa and watched television with the sound turned down really low so they wouldn’t hear
it. I can’t remember what I was watching, but at some point I must have felt lonely, or happy, or
something, because I wanted to talk to someone. The need for contact must have been overwhelming,
and there was no one I could call except for Tom.
There’s no one I want to talk to except for Tom. The call log on my phone says I rang four times: at
11:02, 11:12, 11:54, 12:09. Judging from the length of the calls, I left two messages. He may even
have picked up, but I don’t remember talking to him. I remember leaving the first message; I think I
just asked him to call me. That may be what I said in both of them, which isn’t too bad.
The train shudders to a standstill at the red signal and I look up. Jess is sitting on her patio,
drinking a cup of coffee. She has her feet up against the table and her head back, sunning herself.
Behind her, I think I can see a shadow, someone moving: Jason. I long to see him, to catch a glimpse
of his handsome face. I want him to come outside, to stand behind her the way he does, to kiss the top
of her head.
He doesn’t come out, and her head falls forward. There is something about the way she is moving
today that seems different; she is heavier, weighed down. I will him to come out to her, but the train
jolts and slogs forward and still there is no sign of him; she’s alone. And now, without thinking, I find
myself looking directly into my house, and I can’t look away. The French doors are flung open, light
streaming into the kitchen. I can’t tell, I really can’t, whether I’m seeing this or imagining it—is she
there, at the sink, washing up? Is there a little girl sitting in one of those bouncy baby chairs up there
on the kitchen table?
I close my eyes and let the darkness grow and spread until it morphs from a feeling of sadness into
something worse: a memory, a flashback. I didn’t just ask him to call me back. I remember now, I was
crying. I told him that I still loved him, that I always would. Please, Tom, please, I need to talk to
you. I miss you. No no no no no no no.
I have to accept it, there’s no point trying to push it away. I’m going to feel terrible all day, it’s
going to come in waves—stronger then weaker then stronger again—that twist in the pit of my
stomach, the anguish of shame, the heat coming to my face, my eyes squeezed tight as though I could
make it all disappear. And I’ll be telling myself all day, it’s not the worst thing, is it? It’s not the
worst thing I’ve ever done, it’s not as if I fell over in public, or yelled at a stranger in the street. It’s
not as if I humiliated my husband at a summer barbecue by shouting abuse at the wife of one of his
friends. It’s not as if we got into a fight one night at home and I went for him with a golf club, taking a
chunk out of the plaster in the hallway outside the bedroom. It’s not like going back to work after a
three-hour lunch and staggering through the office, everyone looking, Martin Miles taking me to one
side, I think you should probably go home, Rachel. I once read a book by a former alcoholic where
she described giving oral sex to two different men, men she’d just met in a restaurant on a busy
London high street. I read it and I thought, I’m not that bad. This is where the bar is set.
EVENING
I have been thinking about Jess all day, unable to focus on anything but what I saw this morning. What
was it that made me think that something was wrong? I couldn’t possibly see her expression at that
distance, but I felt when I was looking at her that she was alone. More than alone—lonely. Perhaps
she was—perhaps he’s away, gone to one of those hot countries he jets off to to save lives. And she
misses him, and she worries, although she knows he has to go.
Of course she misses him, just as I do. He is kind and strong, everything a husband should be. And
they are a partnership. I can see it, I know how they are. His strength, that protectiveness he radiates,
it doesn’t mean she’s weak. She’s strong in other ways; she makes intellectual leaps that leave him
openmouthed in admiration. She can cut to the nub of a problem, dissect and analyse it in the time it
takes other people to say good morning. At parties, he often holds her hand, even though they’ve been
together years. They respect each other, they don’t put each other down.
I feel exhausted this evening. I am sober, stone-cold. Some days I feel so bad that I have to drink;
some days I feel so bad that I can’t. Today, the thought of alcohol turns my stomach. But sobriety on
the evening train is a challenge, particularly now, in this heat. A film of sweat covers every inch of
my skin, the inside of my mouth prickles, my eyes itch, mascara rubbed into their corners.
My phone buzzes in my handbag, making me jump. Two girls sitting across the carriage look at me
and then at each other, with a sly exchange of smiles. I don’t know what they think of me, but I know it
isn’t good. My heart is pounding in my chest as I reach for the phone. I know this will be nothing
good, either: it will be Cathy, perhaps, asking me ever so nicely to maybe give the booze a rest this
evening? Or my mother, telling me that she’ll be in London next week, she’ll drop by the office, we
can go for lunch. I look at the screen. It’s Tom. I hesitate for just a second and then I answer it.
“Rachel?”
For the first five years I knew him, I was never Rachel, always Rach. Sometimes Shelley, because
he knew I hated it and it made him laugh to watch me twitch with irritation and then giggle because I
couldn’t help but join in when he was laughing. “Rachel, it’s me.” His voice is leaden, he sounds
worn out. “Listen, you have to stop this, OK?” I don’t say anything. The train is slowing, and we are
almost opposite the house, my old house. I want to say to him, Come outside, go and stand on the
lawn. Let me see you. “Please, Rachel, you can’t call me like this all the time. You’ve got to sort
yourself out.” There is a lump in my throat as hard as a pebble, smooth and obstinate. I cannot
swallow. I cannot speak. “Rachel? Are you there? I know things aren’t good with you, and I’m sorry
for you, I really am, but . . . I can’t help you, and these constant calls are really upsetting Anna. OK? I
can’t help you anymore. Go to AA or something. Please, Rachel. Go to an AA meeting after work
today.”
I pull the filthy plaster off the end of my finger and look at the pale, wrinkled flesh beneath, dried
blood caked at the edge of my fingernail. I press the thumbnail of my right hand into the centre of the
cut and feel it open up, the pain sharp and hot. I catch my breath. Blood starts to ooze from the wound.
The girls on the other side of the carriage are watching me, their faces blank.