FRIDAY, JULY 5, 2013
MORNING
There is a pile of clothing on the side of the train tracks. Light-blue cloth—a shirt, perhaps—jumbled
up with something dirty white. It’s probably rubbish, part of a load dumped into the scrubby little
wood up the bank. It could have been left behind by the engineers who work this part of the track,
they’re here often enough. Or it could be something else. My mother used to tell me that I had an
overactive imagination; Tom said that, too. I can’t help it, I catch sight of these discarded scraps, a
dirty T-shirt or a lonesome shoe, and all I can think of is the other shoe and the feet that fitted into
them.
The train jolts and scrapes and screeches back into motion, the little pile of clothes disappears
from view and we trundle on towards London, moving at a brisk jogger’s pace. Someone in the seat
behind me gives a sigh of helpless irritation; the 8:04 slow train from Ashbury to Euston can test the
patience of the most seasoned commuter. The journey is supposed to take fifty-four minutes, but it
rarely does: this section of the track is ancient, decrepit, beset with signalling problems and neverending engineering works.
The train crawls along; it judders past warehouses and water towers, bridges and sheds, past
modest Victorian houses, their backs turned squarely to the track.
My head leaning against the carriage window, I watch these houses roll past me like a tracking
shot in a film. I see them as others do not; even their owners probably don’t see them from this
perspective. Twice a day, I am offered a view into other lives, just for a moment. There’s something
comforting about the sight of strangers safe at home.
Someone’s phone is ringing, an incongruously joyful and upbeat song. They’re slow to answer, it
jingles on and on around me. I can feel my fellow commuters shift in their seats, rustle their
newspapers, tap at their computers. The train lurches and sways around the bend, slowing as it
approaches a red signal. I try not to look up, I try to read the free newspaper I was handed on my way
into the station, but the words blur in front of my eyes, nothing holds my interest. In my head I can still
see that little pile of clothes lying at the edge of the track, abandoned.
EVENING
The premixed gin and tonic fizzes up over the lip of the can as I bring it to my mouth and sip. Tangy
and cold, the taste of my first-ever holiday with Tom, a fishing village on the Basque coast in 2005. In
the mornings we’d swim the half mile to the little island in the bay, make love on secret hidden
beaches; in the afternoons we’d sit at a bar drinking strong, bitter gin and tonics, watching swarms of
beach footballers playing chaotic twenty-five-a-side games on the low-tide sands.
I take another sip, and another; the can’s already half empty, but it’s OK, I have three more in the
plastic bag at my feet. It’s Friday, so I don’t have to feel guilty about drinking on the train. TGIF. The
fun starts here.
It’s going to be a lovely weekend, that’s what they’re telling us. Beautiful sunshine, cloudless
skies. In the old days we might have driven to Corly Wood with a picnic and the papers, spent all
afternoon lying on a blanket in dappled sunlight, drinking wine. We might have barbecued out back
with friends, or gone to the Rose and sat in the beer garden, faces flushing with sun and alcohol as the
afternoon went on, weaving home, arm in arm, falling asleep on the sofa.
Beautiful sunshine, cloudless skies, no one to play with, nothing to do. Living like this, the way I’m
living at the moment, is harder in the summer when there is so much daylight, so little cover of
darkness, when everyone is out and about, being flagrantly, aggressively happy. It’s exhausting, and it
makes you feel bad if you’re not joining in.
The weekend stretches out ahead of me, forty-eight empty hours to fill. I lift the can to my mouth
again, but there’s not a drop left.