TUESDAY, JULY 9, 2013
MORNING
The pile of clothes from last week is still there, and it looks dustier and more forlorn than it did a few
days ago. I read somewhere that a train can rip the clothes right off you when it hits. It’s not that
unusual, death by train. Two to three hundred a year, they say, so at least one every couple of days.
I’m not sure how many of those are accidental. I look carefully, as the train rolls slowly past, for
blood on the clothes, but I can’t see any.
The train stops at the signal as usual. I can see Jess standing on the patio in front of the French
doors. She’s wearing a bright print dress, her feet are bare. She’s looking over her shoulder, back
into the house; she’s probably talking to Jason, who’ll be making breakfast. I keep my eyes fixed on
Jess, on her home, as the train starts to inch forward. I don’t want to see the other houses; I
particularly don’t want to see the one four doors down, the one that used to be mine.
I lived at number twenty-three Blenheim Road for five years, blissfully happy and utterly
wretched. I can’t look at it now. That was my first home. Not my parents’ place, not a flatshare with
other students, my first home. I can’t bear to look at it. Well, I can, I do, I want to, I don’t want to, I
try not to. Every day I tell myself not to look, and every day I look. I can’t help myself, even though
there is nothing I want to see there, even though anything I do see will hurt me. Even though I
remember so clearly how it felt that time I looked up and noticed that the cream linen blind in the
upstairs bedroom was gone, replaced by something in soft baby pink; even though I still remember the
pain I felt when I saw Anna watering the rosebushes near the fence, her T-shirt stretched tight over
her bulging belly, and I bit my lip so hard, it bled.
I close my eyes tightly and count to ten, fifteen, twenty. There, it’s gone now, nothing to see. We
roll into Witney station and out again, the train starting to pick up pace as suburbia melts into grimy
North London, terraced houses replaced by tagged bridges and empty buildings with broken
windows. The closer we get to Euston, the more anxious I feel; pressure builds; how will today be?
There’s a filthy, low-slung concrete building on the right-hand side of the track about five hundred
metres before we get into Euston. On its side, someone has painted: LIFE IS NOT A PARAGRAPH. I
think about the bundle of clothes on the side of the track and I feel as though my throat is closing up.
Life is not a paragraph, and death is no parenthesis.
EVENING
The train I take in the evening, the 5:56, is slightly slower than the morning one—it takes one hour and
one minute, a full seven minutes longer than the morning train despite not stopping at any extra
stations. I don’t mind, because just as I’m in no great hurry to get into London in the morning, I’m in
no hurry to get back to Ashbury in the evening, either. Not just because it’s Ashbury, although the
place itself is bad enough, a 1960s new town, spreading like a tumour over the heart of
Buckinghamshire. No better or worse than a dozen other towns like it, a centre filled with cafés and
mobile-phone shops and branches of JD Sports, surrounded by a band of suburbia and beyond that the
realm of the multiplex cinema and out-of-town Tesco. I live in a smart(ish), new(ish) block situated at
the point where the commercial heart of the place starts to bleed into the residential outskirts, but it is
not my home. My home is the Victorian semi on the tracks, the one I part-owned. In Ashbury I am not
a homeowner, not even a tenant—I’m a lodger, occupant of the small second bedroom in Cathy’s
bland and inoffensive duplex, subject to her grace and favour.
Cathy and I were friends at university. Half friends, really, we were never that close. She lived
across the hall from me in my first year, and we were both doing the same course, so we were natural
allies in those first few daunting weeks, before we met people with whom we had more in common.
We didn’t see much of each other after the first year and barely at all after college, except for the
occasional wedding. But in my hour of need she happened to have a spare room going and it made
sense. I was so sure that it would only be for a couple of months, six at the most, and I didn’t know
what else to do. I’d never lived by myself, I’d gone from parents to flatmates to Tom, I found the idea
overwhelming, so I said yes. And that was nearly two years ago.
It’s not awful. Cathy’s a nice person, in a forceful sort of way. She makes you notice her niceness.
Her niceness is writ large, it is her defining quality and she needs it acknowledged, often, daily
almost, which can be tiring. But it’s not so bad, I can think of worse traits in a flatmate. No, it’s not
Cathy, it’s not even Ashbury that bothers me most about my new situation (I still think of it as new,
although it’s been two years). It’s the loss of control. In Cathy’s flat I always feel like a guest at the
very outer limit of her welcome. I feel it in the kitchen, where we jostle for space when cooking our
evening meals. I feel it when I sit beside her on the sofa, the remote control firmly within her grasp.
The only space that feels like mine is my tiny bedroom, into which a double bed and a desk have been
crammed, with barely enough space to walk between them. It’s comfortable enough, but it isn’t a
place you want to be, so instead I linger in the living room or at the kitchen table, ill at ease and
powerless. I have lost control over everything, even the places in my head.