WEDNESDAY, JULY 10, 2013
MORNING
The heat is building. It’s barely half past eight and already the day is close, the air heavy with
moisture. I could wish for a storm, but the sky is an insolent blank, pale, watery blue. I wipe away the
sweat on my top lip. I wish I’d remembered to buy a bottle of water.
I can’t see Jason and Jess this morning, and my sense of disappointment is acute. Silly, I know. I
scrutinize the house, but there’s nothing to see. The curtains are open downstairs but the French doors
are closed, sunlight reflecting off the glass. The sash window upstairs is closed, too. Jason may be
away working. He’s a doctor, I think, probably for one of those overseas organizations. He’s
constantly on call, a bag packed on top of the wardrobe; there’s an earthquake in Iran or a tsunami in
Asia and he drops everything, he grabs his bag and he’s at Heathrow within a matter of hours, ready
to fly out and save lives.
Jess, with her bold prints and her Converse trainers and her beauty, her attitude, works in the
fashion industry. Or perhaps in the music business, or in advertising—she might be a stylist or a
photographer. She’s a good painter, too, plenty of artistic flair. I can see her now, in the spare room
upstairs, music blaring, window open, a brush in her hand, an enormous canvas leaning against the
wall. She’ll be there until midnight; Jason knows not to bother her when she’s working.
I can’t really see her, of course. I don’t know if she paints, or whether Jason has a great laugh, or
whether Jess has beautiful cheekbones. I can’t see her bone structure from here and I’ve never heard
Jason’s voice. I’ve never seen them up close, they didn’t live at that house when I lived down the
road. They moved in after I left two years ago, I don’t know when exactly. I suppose I started noticing
them about a year ago, and gradually, as the months went past, they became important to me.
I don’t know their names, either, so I had to name them myself. Jason, because he’s handsome in a
British film star kind of way, not a Depp or a Pitt, but a Firth, or a Jason Isaacs. And Jess just goes
with Jason, and it goes with her. It fits her, pretty and carefree as she is. They’re a match, they’re a
set. They’re happy, I can tell. They’re what I used to be, they’re Tom and me five years ago. They’re
what I lost, they’re everything I want to be.
EVENING
My shirt, uncomfortably tight, buttons straining across my chest, is pit-stained, damp patches clammy
beneath my arms. My eyes and throat itch. This evening I don’t want the journey to stretch out; I long
to get home, to undress and get into the shower, to be where no one can look at me.
I look at the man in the seat opposite mine. He is about my age, early to midthirties, with dark hair,
greying at the temples. Sallow skin. He’s wearing a suit, but he’s taken the jacket off and slung it on
the seat next to him. He has a MacBook, paper-thin, open in front of him. He’s a slow typist. He’s
wearing a silver watch with a large face on his right wrist—it looks expensive, a Breitling maybe.
He’s chewing the inside of his cheek. Perhaps he’s nervous. Or just thinking deeply. Writing an
important email to a colleague at the office in New York, or a carefully worded break-up message to
his girlfriend. He looks up suddenly and meets my eye; his glance travels over me, over the little
bottle of wine on the table in front of me. He looks away. There’s something about the set of his
mouth that suggests distaste. He finds me distasteful.
I am not the girl I used to be. I am no longer desirable, I’m off-putting in some way. It’s not just that
I’ve put on weight, or that my face is puffy from the drinking and the lack of sleep; it’s as if people
can see the damage written all over me, can see it in my face, the way I hold myself, the way I move.
One night last week, when I left my room to get myself a glass of water, I overheard Cathy talking
to Damien, her boyfriend, in the living room. I stood in the hallway and listened. “She’s lonely,”
Cathy was saying. “I really worry about her. It doesn’t help, her being alone all the time.” Then she
said, “Isn’t there someone from work, maybe, or the rugby club?” and Damien said, “For Rachel? Not
being funny, Cath, but I’m not sure I know anyone that desperate.”