MONDAY, JULY 8, 2013
MORNING
It’s a relief to be back on the 8:04. It’s not that I can’t wait to get into London to start my week—I
don’t particularly want to be in London at all. I just want to lean back in the soft, sagging velour seat,
feel the warmth of the sunshine streaming through the window, feel the carriage rock back and forth
and back and forth, the comforting rhythm of wheels on tracks. I’d rather be here, looking out at the
houses beside the track, than almost anywhere else.
There’s a faulty signal on this line, about halfway through my journey. I assume it must be faulty, in
any case, because it’s almost always red; we stop there most days, sometimes just for a few seconds,
sometimes for minutes on end. If I sit in carriage D, which I usually do, and the train stops at this
signal, which it almost always does, I have a perfect view into my favourite trackside house: number
fifteen.
Number fifteen is much like the other houses along this stretch of track: a Victorian semi, two
storeys high, overlooking a narrow, well-tended garden that runs around twenty feet down towards
some fencing, beyond which lie a few metres of no-man’s-land before you get to the railway track. I
know this house by heart. I know every brick, I know the colour of the curtains in the upstairs
bedroom (beige, with a dark-blue print), I know that the paint is peeling off the bathroom window
frame and that there are four tiles missing from a section of the roof over on the right-hand side.
I know that on warm summer evenings, the occupants of this house, Jason and Jess, sometimes
climb out of the large sash window to sit on the makeshift terrace on top of the kitchen-extension roof.
They are a perfect, golden couple. He is dark-haired and well built, strong, protective, kind. He has a
great laugh. She is one of those tiny bird-women, a beauty, pale-skinned with blond hair cropped
short. She has the bone structure to carry that kind of thing off, sharp cheekbones dappled with a
sprinkling of freckles, a fine jaw.
While we’re stuck at the red signal, I look for them. Jess is often out there in the mornings,
especially in the summer, drinking her coffee. Sometimes, when I see her there, I feel as though she
sees me, too, I feel as though she looks right back at me, and I want to wave. I’m too self-conscious. I
don’t see Jason quite so much, he’s away a lot with work. But even if they’re not there, I think about
what they might be up to. Maybe this morning they’ve both got the day off and she’s lying in bed while
he makes breakfast, or maybe they’ve gone for a run together, because that’s the sort of thing they do.
(Tom and I used to run together on Sundays, me going at slightly above my normal pace, him at about
half his, just so we could run side by side.) Maybe Jess is upstairs in the spare room, painting, or
maybe they’re in the shower together, her hands pressed against the tiles, his hands on her hips.
EVENING
Turning slightly towards the window, my back to the rest of the carriage, I open one of the little
bottles of Chenin Blanc I purchased from the Whistlestop at Euston. It’s not cold, but it’ll do. I pour
some into a plastic cup, screw the top back on and slip the bottle into my handbag. It’s less
acceptable to drink on the train on a Monday, unless you’re drinking with company, which I am not.
There are familiar faces on these trains, people I see every week, going to and fro. I recognize
them and they probably recognize me. I don’t know whether they see me, though, for what I really am.
It’s a glorious evening, warm but not too close, the sun starting its lazy descent, shadows
lengthening and the light just beginning to burnish the trees with gold. The train is rattling along, we
whip past Jason and Jess’s place, they pass in a blur of evening sunshine. Sometimes, not often, I can
see them from this side of the track. If there’s no train going in the opposite direction, and if we’re
travelling slowly enough, I can sometimes catch a glimpse of them out on their terrace. If not—like
today—I can imagine them. Jess will be sitting with her feet up on the table out on the terrace, a glass
of wine in her hand, Jason standing behind her, his hands on her shoulders. I can imagine the feel of
his hands, the weight of them, reassuring and protective. Sometimes I catch myself trying to remember
the last time I had meaningful physical contact with another person, just a hug or a heartfelt squeeze of
my hand, and my heart twitches.